airflow/plural/docs/basic-auth.md, before:

## Using the Airflow API

To use the [Airflow Stable REST API](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/stable-rest-api-ref.html) 
follow the steps below

### edit values.yaml

You'll need edit `airflow/helm/airflow/values.yaml` in your installation repo to enable basic auth to the REST API:

```yaml
airflow:
  airflow:
    airflow:
      config:
        AIRFLOW__API__AUTH_BACKENDS: airflow.api.auth.backend.basic_auth
```

Alternatively, you should be able to do this in the configuration section for airflow in your plural console as well.

### create an Airflow User

Create an Airflow user that will be used to make the API calls. To do this, you'll need to identify your Airflow 
Scheduler pod by running:

```shell
kubectl get pods -n airflow
```

After which you can run the following to get a shell to the scheduler container (be sure to replace `nnn-nnn` with the 
actual output from the previous command above):

```shell
kubectl exec -ti airflow-scheduler-nnn-nnn --namespace airflow -- /bin/bash
```

Now that you have a shell to the scheduler container, you can run an Airflow command to create a user (see Airflow Docs 
[here](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/security/webserver.html#web-authentication)):

```shell
airflow@airflow-scheduler-nnn-nnn:/opt/airflow$ airflow users create -e spiderman@superhero.org -f Peter -l Parker -p my_super_secret_password -r Admin -u pparker
```

### customize role (optional)

If you want to customize the Role for your API user and which permissions it has, you can do so in the Airflow UI. See 
more details [here](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/security/access-control.html)

## Making API Calls

Once you've completed the steps above to configure basic auth, you should be able to make api requests to your Airflow 
instance accordingly:

```python
    # trigger a DAG in Python 

    import json
    import requests
    from requests.auth import HTTPBasicAuth
    
    # Define your base URL and dag ID as variables
    base_url = "<replace with your base_url>" # Your base URL (can be found in your project's context.yaml - spec.configuration.airflow.hostname)
    dag_id = "<replace with dag_id you want to trigger>"
    
    # Define your username and password
    username="pparker"
    password="my_super_secret_password"
    
    # Construct and execute http request - (this one triggers a dag)
    response = requests.post(
        url=f"https://{base_url}/api/v1/dags/{dag_id}/dagRuns",
        headers={"accept": "application/json", "content-type": "application/json"},
        data=json.dumps({}),
        auth=HTTPBasicAuth(username=username, password=password)
    )
    print(response.json())
```

```bash
    # Define your base URL and dag ID as variables
    base_url="<replace with your base_url>" # Your base URL (can be found in your project's context.yaml - spec.configuration.airflow.hostname)
    dag_id="<replace with dag_id you want to trigger>"
    
    # Define your username and password
    username="pparker"
    password="my_super_secret_password"
    
    # Construct and execute the curl command - (this one triggers a dag)
    curl -X POST "$base_url/api/v1/dags/$dag_id/dagRuns" \
    -H "accept: application/json" \
    -H "content-type: application/json" \
    -d "{}" \
    -u "$username:$password"
```

For complete documentation on the API Stable REST API, be sure to visit the OSS docs [here](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/stable-rest-api-ref.html).

Commit message:

Add console instructions for pod exec

airflow/plural/docs/basic-auth.md, after:

## Using the Airflow API

To use the [Airflow Stable REST API](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/stable-rest-api-ref.html) 
follow the steps below

### edit values.yaml

You'll need edit `airflow/helm/airflow/values.yaml` in your installation repo to enable basic auth to the REST API:

```yaml
airflow:
  airflow:
    airflow:
      config:
        AIRFLOW__API__AUTH_BACKENDS: airflow.api.auth.backend.basic_auth
```

Alternatively, you should be able to do this in the configuration section for airflow in your plural console as well.

### exec into airflow scheduler pod

In order to create an Airflow user that will be used to authenticate to the API, you will need to run Airflow CLI 
commands. This requires an exec into your Airflow environment. There are two ways you could do this (via local CLI or 
via Plural Console). Choose whichever works best for you:

**__via local CLI__**

1. Identify the scheduler pod by running `kubectl get pods -n airflow`
2. Exec into the scheduler pod by running `kubectl exec -ti airflow-scheduler-nnn-nnn --namespace airflow -- /bin/bash`

**__via Plural Console__**

1. Click on the `Pods` icon on the left-hand nav bar
2. Filter the pods down to the `Airflow` namespace
3. Click on a pod running an Airflow Scheduler
4. On the container line-item called `airflow-scheduler` click the shell icon to launch a shell where you can run Airflow 
CLI commands

### create an airflow user

Now that you have a shell to the scheduler container, you can run an Airflow command to create a user (see Airflow Docs 
[here](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/security/webserver.html#web-authentication)):

```shell
(airflow) airflow users create -e spiderman@superhero.org -f Peter -l Parker -p my_super_secret_password -r Admin -u pparker
```

```shell
airflow@airflow-scheduler-nnn-nnn:/opt/airflow$ airflow users create -e spiderman@superhero.org -f Peter -l Parker -p my_super_secret_password -r Admin -u pparker
```

### customize role (optional)

If you want to customize the Role for your API user and which permissions it has, you can do so in the Airflow UI. See 
more details [here](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/security/access-control.html)

## Making API Calls

Once you've completed the steps above to configure basic auth, you should be able to make api requests to your Airflow 
instance accordingly:

```python
    # trigger a DAG in Python 

    import json
    import requests
    from requests.auth import HTTPBasicAuth
    
    # Define your base URL and dag ID as variables
    base_url = "<replace with your base_url>" # Your base URL (can be found in your project's context.yaml - spec.configuration.airflow.hostname)
    dag_id = "<replace with dag_id you want to trigger>"
    
    # Define your username and password
    username="pparker"
    password="my_super_secret_password"
    
    # Construct and execute http request - (this one triggers a dag)
    response = requests.post(
        url=f"https://{base_url}/api/v1/dags/{dag_id}/dagRuns",
        headers={"accept": "application/json", "content-type": "application/json"},
        data=json.dumps({}),
        auth=HTTPBasicAuth(username=username, password=password)
    )
    print(response.json())
```

```bash
    # Define your base URL and dag ID as variables
    base_url="<replace with your base_url>" # Your base URL (can be found in your project's context.yaml - spec.configuration.airflow.hostname)
    dag_id="<replace with dag_id you want to trigger>"
    
    # Define your username and password
    username="pparker"
    password="my_super_secret_password"
    
    # Construct and execute the curl command - (this one triggers a dag)
    curl -X POST "$base_url/api/v1/dags/$dag_id/dagRuns" \
    -H "accept: application/json" \
    -H "content-type: application/json" \
    -d "{}" \
    -u "$username:$password"
```

For complete documentation on the API Stable REST API, be sure to visit the OSS docs [here](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/stable-rest-api-ref.html).
